the four best digital marketing careers
to pursue in 2022 and beyond
20 years ago i launched myself into a
career path that no one even knew
existed i was still in college but
landed my first client completely
unintentionally at first little did i
know how far that first step would take
me before i was 30 years old i had
already built two companies from
absolutely nothing to eight figures in
annual revenue all i wanted to do was
solve a couple of big problems that i
thought were important but i ended up
being featured in forbes magazine as one
of the top markers in the world
president obama also nominated me as one
of the top 30 entrepreneurs under the
age of 30. i'm no longer under the age
of 30 i'm kind of getting old now and
besides all the media attention i
managed to travel the world doing public
speaking in many exciting countries
although i didn't really have time to
view those countries or the monuments i
kind of had to stay in my hotel and do
work but that's life today
over 600 people are working in companies
that i've built and
all that i owe to digital marketing if
there's one career path that's worth
doing yet in 2022 and still we're doing
in the future it's digital marketing
one of the main reasons for that is how
big the market has become in the last 10
years and it's continually growing the
global digital marketing market reached
a value of nearly
305 billion in 2020 and it's expected to
reach a value of around 807
billion by 2026. that's huge there's a
lot of opportunities right now that you
can expect more and more opportunities
that will come in the upcoming futures
so let's take a look at careers that are
on the rise today and are expected to
grow even more aggressively in the near
future
i'm speaking from the position that
someone who's constantly looking for new
talent and it's pretty hard to find and
recruit people in those positions that
i'm gonna share in other words if you
start diving into them you're gonna do
well
the first one is artificial intelligence
specialists recent research with the
economist group so that recruiting for
data and analytics talent is one of the
most difficult out there for all
marketing disciplines according to 39 of
senior marketers
so becoming an expert in this area will
provide you with a great career
opportunity in the future the average
salary for an ai specialist in the us is
162 000 while the top ten percent can
make a hundred thousand dollars more
than that the second one is a ux
designer ping pong research site that
the average annual salary for a ux
designer in the us is 97 000
but here's the kicker those starting
with zero to three years experience
typically earn 76 000 that's a good
amount of cash the third one is digital
marketing managers and directors cmos
and vps can expect to earn over a
hundred thousand dollars a year
as can creative directors digital
marketing managers and directors can
expect to earn similar sizes as other
marketing managers with the average of
roughly a hundred and nine thousand
dollars according to sally.com and its
source of up to 148 thousand dollars for
the most experienced the fourth one is
positions related to marketing analytics
look data is becoming incredibly
important but it's only as good as your
ability to interpret it and make sense
of out of it if you have all this data
and you don't know what to do with it
doesn't really matter it's kind of
useless marketing analytics is a
valuable skill set and what you need to
do is get really good at analyzing the
data and tell people hey here's what you
need to do with the data to hit these
goals in the business or within
marketing people love you if you can do
that people everyone uses things like
google data studio or google analytics
but very few people log in and for the
people who log in a very very very small
percentage even though to do with the
data to get better results